# Documentation
After reading the paper, we decided to make a video game controller based on the paper button interaction. This meant testing a lot of different variables.
## What buttons to push: 
The first variable was which design of buttons to use. Quickly, we focused on the symmetrical and asymmetrical buttons for this. For the majority of the project, the asymmetrical buttons seemed to be more easily implementable. Therefore, most tests afterward were conducted with that design. Towards the end, however, we found a serious flaw with it. Viewed from some angles, the asymmetrical design looked pressed even if it was not, leading to unwanted input. The symmetrical design had other advantages as well, such as being smaller, more shaped like a button, and having an easier assembly process. It has the possible disadvantage that one side of the button needs to slide and can therefore not be fixed to the backing plate as securely as the asymmetrical design.
## Constructing the body of the controller: 
At the beginning, we tried to make the controller completely consist of paper by creating the body from folded paper in a similar manner to corrugated cardboard, with holes for the markers, but this proved to be unstable and time-consuming to craft. Therefore, we switched to a clear backplate as used in the paper. The choice of material for the backplate proved to be remarkably flexible. The material does not have to be completely clear, as long as pictures pressed against it are clear. Therefore, a plastic cover from a takeout box, for example, suffices for the backface of the controller.
## How big should the markers be? 
Choosing the size of the markers is a tradeoff influenced by multiple factors: quality of the camera, intended maximum distance from the camera, and size of the controller. We found that a marker size of 2x2 cm-sized 4x4 Arucomarkers works well, allowing for reasonably small controllers while leaving flexibility in the placement of the buttons. It should also be noted that not all buttons need to be the same size. Buttons that need to function reliably can be made bigger, and those, for example, only used to start the game can be made smaller.
Choosing a paper type: Choosing the right paper was a further aspect we looked at. We tried everything from single-layer up to four layers. We found that even single-layer designs work well, with the number of layers modifying the amount of force feedback the buttons give. For the type of paper, we decided on checkered paper, since it helps with the crafting process and measurements.
## Creating the markers: 
To make crafting the buttons easier, we created a page with all the needed markers in different sizes.
To craft a button for a 2x2 cm button, we take a 2 cm x 7 cm strip of paper and fold it as seen in the paper. Next, in the compressed state of the button, we glue the marker to the bottom of it before cutting the marker in half. This results in the markers being in perfect position for recognition when the button is pressed. In the paper, the markers were already printed on the strip of paper being folded. We decided to glue them on instead, as it made experimentation easier.

## What we learned:
How does the paper controller perform?
It quite frankly shocked us how well the controls work. Granted, it is nowhere near a commercial controller, but given that it is only a bunch of paper and a takeaway box cover, the level of performance that can be achieved with it is astounding. One advantage of the paper controller is that it can be created with minimal resources. Since the markers can be drawn by hand and the paper cut by creasing and tearing it, you strictly only need a clear backing plate, some form of glue, and paper. Though having printed markers, scissors, and Scotch tape in addition to paper glue makes the process much easier. The controller is very easily configurable. Since the buttons are affixed with Scotch tape on plastic, they can quickly be removed and placed in another position. This came in very handy during the project.
One area the controller struggled with is pressing multiple buttons with one finger, but this was solved by placing the buttons close together and in line with the finger's direction. A button type that is hard to create with these paper push buttons are shoulder buttons, since the paper buttons need to be on the front of the controller. A workaround is to place complete Aruco markers at a position they would be covered by a finger. To activate them, the finger is lifted.
## Strain: 
There is a certain element of strain that occurs during prolonged usage since the controller has to be held visible for the camera. However, since the hands themselves do not need to move, the arm can be rested on something, minimizing that strain.
## Future work:
The buttons found in the paper lend themselves to face buttons, with shoulder triggers or analog sticks being harder or more cumbersome to implement or use. It would also be interesting to see how 3D printing would lend itself to creating these types of controls, since one field of research 3D printers are used in is pliant mechanisms, which these paper buttons also are.